.Dd August 17, 2014
.Dt IDIOM 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm idiom
.Nd translate between languages using a GUI
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm idiom
.Op Fl p
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
graphical utility translates between written languages.
It is backed by Google Translate.
It supports these options and arguments:
.
.Bl -tag -width XX
.It Fl p
Translate from the
.Li PRIMARY
selection.
This option fills in the top text box with text from the
.Li PRIMARY
and fills in the bottom text box with its translation.
.El
.Ss Keyboard Shortcuts
In the following descriptions, ^X means control-X.
.Bl -tag -width XXXX
.It Ic ^ENTER | M-t
Translate the top text into the bottom area.
.It Ic M-b
Translate the bottom text into the top area.
.It Ic ^C
Copy the selected text into the CLIPBOARD selection.
.It Ic ^N
Clear both text areas.
.It Ic ^O
Replace the top text box with the contents of a file.
.It Ic ^Q
Quit.
.It Ic ^S
Save the translated text to a file.
.It Ic ^V
If a text box is focused, insert the contents of the CLIPBOARD at the cursor's
position.
.It Ic ^X
Copy the selected text into the CLIPBOARD selection, then delete the selected
text.
.El
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT
.\" For sections 1, 6, 7, and 8 only.
.\" .Sh FILES
.Sh EXIT STATUS
The
.Nm
utility exits 0 on succcess and >0 if an error occurs.
.\" .Sh EXAMPLES
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
An error message like:
.Dl idiom: curl: [garbage]
indicates that
.Xr libcurl 3
cannot find TLS certificates.
This can happen with the
.Li libcurl-4-nss-dev
package on Debian.
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr xclipboard 1
.\" .Sh STANDARDS
.\" .Sh HISTORY
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -split
.An "Mike Burns" Aq Mt mike@mike-burns.com
.\" .Sh CAVEATS
.\" .Sh BUGS
